
# README Advanced Simulation

This README file was generated on: 08-03-2024

### Authors:

Daijie Huang (5155118)

Milan Moleman (5415764)

Nelene Augustinus (5404916)

Roelof Kooijman (5389437)

Simone Hoogedijk(5405084)

### Institution:

Delft University of Technology : Faculty Technology, Policy and Management.

### Purpose:

The data and the model are created for a project in the course EPA133a - Advanced Simulation of the TU Delft.

### General information:

The attached code and data can model the N1 road from Bangladesh. The model aims to examine the vulnerability and criticality of bridges on the N1 and the effects of broken bridges on the traffic flow of trucks on the N1. The model can be used to identify which bridges need reinforcing to increase the reliable throughput of traffic over the N1.

### Technologies used

The code is written and tested for Python 3.11.8. The specific packages used are given in the requirement.txt file. To use the code an environment for Python should be created and the packages stated in the requirements.txt should be installed. The data used is stored in .xlsx and .csv formats, so a viewer that can read this format is required if only interested in data.

### Purpose code files

Various Python files are included. Each has its purpose which will be briefly explained in the Table underneath.

| File           |Purpose                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| components.py  | Contains the used classes for the model, except the model class itself                                                                          |
| data.py        | Cleans the used dataset for the bridges                                                                                                         |
| links.py       | Creates the links based on the cleaned bridge dataset which is produced by the data.py file                                                     |
| model.py       | Contains the model class which can use the components.py file in combination with the data produced by data.py and links.py to simulate the N1. |
| model_run.py   | Runs the model.py file once and stores the data produced by running the model                                                                   |
| model_batch.py | Will run the model.py file multiple times but with different model configurations. Used to get the data per scenario.                           |
| model_viz.py   | Runs the model.py and creates a visualisation of the model results in a separate window.                                                        |

### File structuring

The folder has a specific structure that is as follows:

    EPA133a-G07-A2/
        ├── data/
        ├── experiment/
        ├── img/
        ├── model/
        └── report/

The data folder contains the data files needed and produced by the .py files and should look like:

    data/
     ├── bridges.xlsx
     ├── bridges_cleaned.csv
     ├── bridges_cleaned_linked.csv
     └── roads.csv

The experiment folder contains the scenario results in CSV-format and should look like:

    experiment/
     ├── scenario0.csv
     ├── scenario1.csv
     ├── scenario2.csv
     ├── scenario3.csv
     ├── scenario4.csv
     ├── scenario5.csv
     ├── scenario6.csv
     ├── scenario7.csv
     └── scenario8.csv

The image folder contains all the images generated by the visualisation.ipynb file. These images show and compare the scenario results and should look like: 

    img/
     ├── barplot_avg_delay_time.png
     └── barplot_avg_driving_time.png

The model folder contains all the code files required to run the model and should look like this:

    model/
        ├── ContinuousSpace/
        │   └── SimpleContinuousModule.py
        ├── components.py
        ├── data.py
        ├── links.py
        ├── model.py
        ├── model_batch.py
        ├── model_run.py
        ├── model_viz.py
        └── visualisation.ipynb

Lastly, the report folder contains the report that provides detailed information on the analysis conducted for the Bangladesh case. 

    report/
     └── report_bangladesh_case_group_7.pdf

### Usage

If the file structuring is similar to the one given above the model_batch.py, model_run.py and model_viz.py files are enough to access all the functionalities of the project code. The "Purpose code files" define what the files do. If one wants to clean the raw Bangladesh bridge data the data.py file can be used. Lastly, the links.py can be used to create the bridges_cleaned_linked.csv dataset. This however only adds value to the model and is quite redundant if the goal is to see how the clean datasets look.

### Assistance during code creation

Instructor:

-   Y. Huang - [Y.Huang@tudelft.nl](mailto:Y.Huang@tudelft.nl)
-   Prof.dr.ir. A. Verbraeck - [A.Verbraeck@tudelft.nl](mailto:A.Verbraeck@tudelft.nl)

Teaching assistant:

-   Angela Camarena Barba - [A.CamarenaBarba@student.tudelft.nl](mailto:A.CamarenaBarba@student.tudelft.nl)

### Contact

All questions about the code, projet, or anything else can be sent to the following email:

[r.kooijman-1@tudelft.nl](mailto:r.kooijman-1@tudelft.nl)
